# Deploying ACS Hardware

This page will provide a generalized guide for deploying new ACS hardware, including identifying the ideal switch type, setting parameters, etc.

Make sure to also check out the "Example ACS Deployments" page for inspiration.

## ACS Configuration

ACS hardware can be configured over USB via serial. 

To begin, connect the ACS Core to a computer and open a serial terminal. Software like PUTTY or the Arduino IDE are reccomended. The device name will be "CH340C" or "Generic USB UART Bridge" for hardware V2.3.2. Baud rate will be 115200.

Parameters are modified by sending a serialized JSON file to the ACS Core. The Core will restart after applying the new settings. The specific order of the JSON parameters don't matter, and you can disclude any parameters you are not changing to keep the last/old settings.

The format of the JSON is as follows:

> {"Parameter1":"Value1","Parameter2":"Value2",..."ParameterX":"ValueX"}

An improperly formatted JSON will result in an error.

The following parameters are accepted (Case Sensitive):
* OldPassword: **The only mandated parameter!**, The parameter protection password. Default value is "Shlug". Entering an incorrect password will result in an error and your settings not being applied.
* NewPassword: Sets a new updated password.
* SSID: The name of the WiFi network to connect to.
* Password: The password to access the WiFi network. Set to "null" (case sensitive) to use no password.
* Server: The root server to make API calls against. Ex: https://make.rit.edu.
* Key: The API access key generated by the server.
* MachineID: Unique machine identifier or name. Needs to be formatted with characters that can be in a URL (e.g. "Bandsaw Left" wouldn't work, "bandsawleft" is fine). The system takes any input and will not do error checking.
* MachineType: The numerical machine type, can be found on the website under "Manage Equipment".
* SwitchType: The numerical switch type, used for checking system integrity. Not currently used.
* Zone: The numerical zone/room the equipment is in, can be found on the website under "Rooms".
* NeedsWelcome: Set to 1 to require user has signed in today before using this machine, 0 to not require.
* TempLimit: The temperature threshold, in whole-number degrees Celsius, above which the system enters a fault if detected. 50 is the default, but can be set as high as 80.
* NetworkMode: Not currently used.
* Frequency: How often, in seconds, the system sends a status update to the server. Around 10 (seconds) is default.
* DebugMode: Set to 1 to turn on verbose serial outputs. **WARNING: Debug outputs can contain sensitive information!**
* NoBuzzer: Set to 1 to turn off the buzzer.
